Hello, I'm Michael Hoffman.
Welcome to this course on Getting Started with Spring Batch.
To begin with,
I'll explain why you might need batch processing and
how Spring Batch can meet your needs.
I'll also cover what you'll learn from watching the course.
Let's get started with some background.
The concept of processing data in batch goes back to
the earliest days of computing.
It evokes images of men and women sitting in very uncomfortable chairs
entering batches of punch cards into tabulation machines.
Over time, large mainframe computers dominated the landscape.
This greatly increased the demand for batch processing.
Today, enterprises have evolved into a mixture of servers in the cloud.
Enterprises have a variety of web applications and back-end
systems that support their supply chain.
Enterprises execute business on these systems at a global scale,
requiring 24 x 7 uptime and minimal system impact from internal processes.
As a result,
there's been a shift from batch processing to stream processing
for real-time updates of these systems; however,
batch is certainly still a relevant tool for the enterprise.
With that history as context,
let's formulate a simple definition of batch processing.
Batch processing takes data as an input.
In general, input datasets are large in value,
which drives the need for the various batching features that are available.
The dataset is structured,
oftentimes in a file with a delimiter such as a comma or tab.
The dataset is also finite, such as having a set number of rows in the file.
This input data is then processed by one or more jobs.
These jobs run periodically, often overnight, to process data.
As part of processing,
jobs will apply one or more rules to each input data record.
Rarely does the process update the source input directly.
Jobs gain efficiency by taking advantage of features such as
chunking of data and parallel processing.
Once the job is finished processing a data record, it gets output.
Jobs will often write process data to a database.
Jobs can also write out data to be used for input to the next job in a chain.
Again, jobs will take advantage of batching features for output,
such as batching commits to the destination endpoint.
Next, let's look at how you would use batch processing.
While there are certainly many usage scenarios,
let's look at the two most common ones for batch processing.
The first scenario is data transformation.
Oftentimes this is at a large scale.
For example,
I may have an end of month accounting process where I
retrieve all of the transactions for the month,
process each one individually,
and produce other structures of data for reporting.
Returning to our definition of batch,
this type of processing likely happens on a scheduled
basis when some business need arises.
As this processing usually requires completion within a window of time,
such as before month's end for accounting,
we need to take advantage of features like parallel
processing and chunking of input data.
The second scenario is system integration.
Commonly, this is used to ingest or export large amounts of data between systems.
For example,
a retail system may bulk load all of the new merchandise
available from external vendors on a nightly basis so that it's
available the next day on the website.
Oftentimes this scenario requires batch processing to happen more frequently.
The batch system will pull more frequently for inputs to
keep data fresh in a near real-time manner.
Given this,
it's often a shorter window for processing time and may
require different features of batch processing over
larger scale data transformation.
Now let's briefly look at another approach for data processing.
Stream processing is an approach that actually builds
on the concept of batch processing.
Instead of a fixed input from a file or other data source,
stream processing takes a stream of data change events as input.
Oftentimes these change events are sourced from a message queue.
The input data is often formatted in a structure such as JSON or XML.
Each input event contains either a document with a full
dataset that's changed or the bare minimum of details to allow
the processor to retrieve the data, such as a unique identifier.
Instead of running on a periodic or scheduled basis,
the stream processing job is always running in a near real-time pace,
processing events as they come in.
Similar to batch processing,
there's also the application of business rules to the input event data,
such as domain transformation.
There are challenges that emerge for stream processing,
which are different than batch.
For example,
stream processors need to be concerned with the availability of components,
such as the message queue and the destination in order
to assure that data is not lost,
where batch processing can always rely on the original input.
Challenges with stream processing means different types
of features are needed for support.
This includes redundancy of processors, message replay, and message routing.
Stream processing often results in written outputs similar to batch processing.
Oftentimes this data is written to a database in a similar fashion to
the system integration scenario mentioned for batch.
Data could also be written to another queue for a variety of
reasons such as grouping similar messages or fanning out to
other jobs for parallel processing.
As a final step to understanding the background of batch processing,
let's look at some of its benefits and challenges.
I'm going to focus on three key benefits and three
key challenges of batch processing.
First, batch processing is best for processing high volumes of data at a time.
As you know the dataset from the start of processing,
it's possible to read an entire input set and optimize the
processing of data prior to execution.
Stream processing can be slower for large volumes as events will need
to be queued and require additional processing to determine the best
approach for grouping data processing.
Another key benefit is the ability to stop and restart a job at any time.
As the input data is finite,
we can count the number of records processed prior to a failure,
then we can fix an offending record and restart the
processing at or after the failing record.
As stream processing is a continual ingestion of events,
we could cause significant upstream issues by stopping processing,
such as backing up the input queue to the point of
overloading it or crashing it.
Finally, batch processing has matured over a large span of time.
There are many tools available,
including the framework we will focus on in this course.
There are also many examples available describing the
right and wrong ways to implement batch.
Along with these benefits, batch processing also faces several challenges.
Fist, because batch works with a finite dataset,
it often means that it can't meet the business need for data availability.
Today, many systems need data to be as fresh as possible.
For example,
a retail company may want to maximize availability of their product
and want to assure that as soon as inventory is available the product
is also available for customer purchase.
It would not make sense to run a batch job every 5
minutes to handle this scenario.
If you need real-time availability,
you may want to consider stream processing instead.
Next, batch processing tends to be a resource intensive process.
Given the 24 x 7 requirements for many of today's systems,
running a long batch process can have significant impact
on the real-time usage of systems.
If you have these types of uptime processing requirements,
you may want to look at an alternative approach including stream processing.
Finally,
many times the integration and transformation requirements for data
require simple computations or a business rule application.
For example,
you may just need to convert a few attributes of the input data
to massage it into the required output format.
Leveraging a batch system in these cases can be overkill.
As this is a Getting Started course,
I'm not going to dive much deeper into batch processing concepts.
If you would like more information on the approaches
for batch and stream processing,
I would recommend checking out Martin Kleppmann's book,
Designing Data-Intensive Applications.
With our high-level understanding of batch processing,
let's look at one of the most popular frameworks for supporting batch process implementation.